# -Influenza-A

[figure 1](/images/influenza.png)  
Figure 1 Influenza A and influenza B. The figure represents an influenza A virus particle or virion. Both influenza A and influenza B viruses are enveloped negative- sense RNA viruses with genomes comprising eight single- stranded RNA segments located inside the virus particle. Although antigenically different, the viral proteins encoded by the viral genome of influenza A and influenza B viruses have similar functions: the three largest RNA
segments encode the three subunits of the viral RNA- dependent RNA polymerases (PB1, PB2 and PA) that are responsible for RNA synthesis and replication in infected cells; two RNA segments encode the viral glycoproteins haemagglutinin (HA , which has a ‘stalk’ domain and a ‘head’ domain), which mediates binding to sialic acid- containing receptors and viral entry , and neuraminidase (NA), which is responsible for releasing viruses bound to non- functional receptors and helping viral spread. The RNA genome is bound by the viral nucleoprotein (NP), which is encoded by RNA segment 5. RNA
segments 6 and 8 encode more than one protein, namely , the matrix protein (M1) and membrane protein (M2) — BM2 in the case of influenza B — and the nonstructural protein NS1 (not shown) and nuclear export protein (NEP). The M1 protein is thought to provide a scaffold that helps the structure of the virion and that, together with NEP, regulates the trafficking of the viral RNA segments in the cell; the M2 protein is a proton ion channel that is required for viral entry and exit and that, together with the HA and NA glycoproteins, is located on the surface of the virus anchored in a lipid membrane derived from the infected cell. Finally , the NS1 protein is a virulence factor that inhibits host antiviral responses in infected cells. The influenza viruses can also express additional
accessory viral proteins in infected cells, such as PB1–F2 and PA- x (influenza A), that participate in preventing host innate antiviral responses together with the NS1 protein or NB (influenza B), the function of which is unknown. NS1, NEP, PB1–F2 and PA- x are not present in the virus particle or are present in only very small amounts. NB is a unique influenza B virus surface protein anchored in the lipid membrane of the virus particles.  
